---
author: thomas
comments: true
date: 2018-03-17 18:57:46+00:00
layout: article
image:
   teaser: logo.jpg
   path: /images/logo.jpg
published: true
title: "Calibrating the compass wirelessly with USB/IP"
categories:
- articles
---

With the switch to the XSens IMU last year came a new challenge. To calibrate
the magnetometer on the XSens, we use the graphical 'magnetic field mapper'
program supplied with it. This is compiled for Intel processor
architectures, so we need to run it on a laptop, not the Raspberry Pi that
controls the boat.

Our first approach was to place the XSens in the boat with a long USB cable
coming out to a nearby laptop, carry out the calibration process, and then
unplug it from the laptop and plug it into the Rasberry Pi. But with a narrow
access hatch, it's difficult to swap the plugs without moving things around.
What we wanted was a way to do the calibration while the XSens was connected to
the Raspberry Pi. And what we found was USB/IP.

**USB/IP** is a Linux technology which sends USB data over the network, so
a USB device plugged into one computer can act like it's plugged into another
one. In our case, the Raspberry Pi acts as a USB/IP server, exposing the XSens
over the network, and the laptop running the calibration is a USB/IP client.
Getting this working took some experimentation; if you're trying to do something
similar, here are some notes on what we found:

- On Ubuntu 16.04, the `usbip` package [doesn't work](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/900384).
  USB/IP is now part of the `linux-tools-common` package instead.
  It looks like it was packaged when it was a separate utility, and it later
  became part of Linux.
- On the Raspberry Pi, we ended up compiling usbip ourselves. This might not
  be necessary, but if you do have to do it, make sure you get the Linux source
  code for the version matching your kernel. You can run `uname -r` to find
  your kernel version.
- The server (the one the USB device is plugged into) needs the `usbip-host`
  kernel module loaded, and the `usbipd` daemon running.
- On the server, run `usbip list -l` to see available USB devices. A device has
  a fixed USB ID (e.g. `2639:0300` for our XSens). Find the *bus ID* (e.g.
  `1-1.3`), which can change. The `--parseable` (or `-p`) flag helps if you
  want to automate finding this.
- Using the bus ID, `usbip bind -b 1-1.3` exposes the device to the network.
  Local programs can't use it while it's exposed, to unbind it when you've
  finished with `usbip unbind -b 1-1.3`.
- The client needs the `vhci-hcd` kernel module loaded.
- On the client, you need the bus ID and the IP address of the server. To
  connect the device, run `usbip attach -r 192.168.0.1 -b 1-1.3`. Now programs
  on this system should be able to use the USB device as if it were plugged in.
- The device gets a 'port number' on the client, which starts from 0. You use
  this to detach it again when you're finished with it: `usbip detach -p 0`.

Our scripts to connect and disconnect the XSens over USB/IP are in our
GitHub repository, in the [piaccess folder](https://github.com/Maritime-Robotics-Student-Society/sailing-robot/tree/master/piaccess).
